(telegraf-ntpq)=

# Telegraf NTPQ

<meta name="description" content="Documentation on the telegraf/ntpq monitor">

## Description

The {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>` provides this integration as the `telegraf/ntpq` monitor via the Smart Agent Receiver. This is an embedded form of the Telegraf NTPQ plugin. This monitor requires the `ntpq` executable available on the PATH of the agent.

##  Installation

This monitor is available in the SignalFx Smart Agent Receiver, which is part of the {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>`.

To install this integration:

1. Deploy the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector to your host or container platform.

2. Configure the monitor, as described in the next section.

## Configuration

This Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector allows embedding a Smart Agent monitor configuration in an associated Smart Agent Receiver instance.

**Note:** Providing a Telegraf NTPQ monitor entry in your Smart Agent or Collector configuration is required for its use. Use the appropriate form for your agent type.

### Smart Agent
To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:

```yaml
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: telegraf/ntpq
   ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#configure-the-smart-agent" target="_blank">Smart Agent example configuration</a> for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

To activate this monitor in the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector, add the following to your agent configuration:

```yaml
receivers:
  smartagent/ntpq:
    type: telegraf/ntpq
    ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/examples" target="_blank">configuration examples</a> for specific use cases that show how the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector can integrate and complement existing environments.

**Note:** Include monitors with event-sending functionality as members of a `logs` pipeline that utilizes an exporter that makes the event submission requests. Use a <a href="https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/processor/resourcedetectionprocessor/README.md" target="_blank">Resource Detection processor</a> to ensure that host identity and other useful information is made available as event dimensions.

### Configuration settings

The following table shows the configuration options for this monitor:

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `dnsLookup` | no | `bool` | If false, set the ``-n ntpq` flag. Can reduce metric gather time. (**default:** `true`) |

## Metrics
The following metrics are available for this integration:

<div class="metrics-yaml" url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/main/pkg/monitors/telegraf/monitors/ntpq/metadata.yaml"></div>

## Troubleshooting

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```
