(telegraf-varnish)=

# Telegraf Varnish

<meta name="description" content="Documentation on the telegraf/varnish monitor">

## Description

The {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>` provides this integration as the `telegraf/varnish` monitor via the Smart Agent Receiver. This is an embedded form of the Telegraf Varnish plugin. This monitor uses the `varnishstat` command, so the Smart Agent needs to be run on the same host as the varnish server.

Do the following to enable the Smart Agent to run the `varnishstat` command:

```bash
usermod -a -G varnish signalfx-agent
```

##  Installation

This monitor is available in the SignalFx Smart Agent Receiver, which is part of the {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>`.

To install this integration:

1. Deploy the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector to your host or container platform.

2. Configure the monitor, as described in the next section.

## Configuration

This Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector allows embedding a Smart Agent monitor configuration in an associated Smart Agent Receiver instance.

**Note:** Providing a Telegraf Varnish monitor entry in your Smart Agent or Collector configuration is required for its use. Use the appropriate form for your agent type.

### Smart Agent
To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:

```yaml
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: telegraf/varnish
   ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#configure-the-smart-agent" target="_blank">Smart Agent example configuration</a> for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

To activate this monitor in the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector, add the following to your agent configuration:

```yaml
receivers:
  smartagent/varnish:
    type: telegraf/varnish
    ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/examples" target="_blank">configuration examples</a> for specific use cases that show how the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector can integrate and complement existing environments.

**Note:** Include monitors with event-sending functionality as members of a `logs` pipeline that utilizes an exporter that makes the event submission requests. Use a <a href="https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/processor/resourcedetectionprocessor/README.md" target="_blank">Resource Detection processor</a> to ensure that host identity and other useful information is made available as event dimensions.

### Configuration settings

The following table shows the configuration options for this monitor:

| Option| Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `useSudo` | no | `bool` | If running as a restricted user, enable this flag to prepend sudo. (**default:** `false`) |
| `binary` | no | `string` | The location of the varnishstat binary. (**default:** `/usr/bin/varnishstat`) |
| `stats` | no | `list of strings` | Which stats to gather. Glob matching can be used (for example, `stats = ["MAIN.*"]`). Stats []string `yaml:"stats" default:"[\"MAIN.cache_hit\", \"MAIN.cache_miss\", \"MAIN.uptime\"]"` (**default:** `[MAIN.*]`) |
| `instanceName` | no | `string` | Optional name for the varnish instance to query. It corresponds to a `-n` parameter value. |

## Metrics

The following metrics are available for this integration:

<div class="metrics-yaml" url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/main/pkg/monitors/telegraf/monitors/varnish/metadata.yaml"></div>

## Troubleshooting

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```