(statsd)=

# Statsd

<meta name="description" content="Documentation on the statsd monitor">


## Description

The {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>` provides this integration as the `statsd` monitor via the Smart Agent Receiver.

This monitor receives and aggregates statsd metrics and converts them to data points. This monitor listens on a configured address and port to receive the statsd metrics. Note that this monitor does not support statsd extensions such as tags.

The monitor supports the `Counter`, `Timer`, `Gauge`, and `Set` types, which are dispatched as the Splunk Observability Cloud types `counter`, `gauge`, `gauge`, and `gauge` respectively.

**Note**: Data points get a `host` dimension of the current host that the agent is running on, not the host from which the statsd metric was sent. For this reason, send statsd metrics to a local agent instance. If you don't want the `host` dimension, you can set `disableHostDimensions: true` on the monitor configuration.

## Installation

This monitor is available in the SignalFx Smart Agent Receiver, which is part of the {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>`.

To install this integration:

1. Deploy the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector to your host or container platform.

2. Configure the monitor, as described in the next section.

### Verifying installation

You can send statsd metrics locally with `netcat` as follows, then verify in Observability Cloud that the metric arrived (assuming the default configuration).

```
$ echo "statsd.test:1|g" | nc -w 1 -u 127.0.0.1 8125
```

For Kubernetes environments, use the `status.hostIP` environment variable to verify the installation. This environment variable is the IP address of the node where the pod is running. See [Expose Pod Information to Containers Through Files](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/inject-data-application/downward-api-volume-expose-pod-information/). 

## Configuration

The Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector allows embedding a Smart Agent monitor configuration in an associated Smart Agent Receiver instance.

**Note:** Providing a `statsd` monitor entry in your Smart Agent or Collector configuration is required for its use. Use the appropriate form for your agent type.

### Smart Agent

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
  - type: statsd
    ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#configure-the-smart-agent" target="_blank">Smart Agent example configuration</a> for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

To activate this monitor in the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
receivers:
  smartagent/statsd:
    type: statsd
    ...  # Additional config
```

To complete the monitor activation, you must also include the `smartagent/statsd` receiver item in a `metrics` pipeline. To do this, add the receiver item to the `service` > `pipelines` > `metrics` > `receivers` section of your configuration file.

See <a href="https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/examples" target="_blank">configuration examples</a> for specific use cases that show how the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector can integrate and complement existing environments.

### Configuration settings

The following table shows the configuration options for the `statsd` monitor:

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `listenAddress` | no | `string` | The host/address on which to bind the UDP listener that accepts statsd datagrams (**default:** `localhost`) |
| `listenPort` | no | `integer` | The port on which to listen for statsd messages (**default:** `8125`) |
| `metricPrefix` | no | `string` | A prefix in metric names that needs to be removed before metric name conversion |
| `converters` | no | `list of objects (see below)` | A list converters to convert statsd metric names into SignalFx metric names and dimensions |

The **nested** `converters` configuration object has the following fields:

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `pattern` | no | `string` | A pattern to match against statsd metric names |
| `metricName` | no | `string` | A format to compose a metric name to report to SignalFx |

The Smart Agent does not do any built-in filtering of metrics that come out of this monitor.

## Metrics

This section describes how metrics can be collected with this monitor.

### Adding dimensions to statsd metrics

The statsd monitor can parse keywords from a statsd metric name by a set of converters that was configured by user, as shown in the following example:

```
converters:
  - pattern: "cluster.cds_{traffic}_{mesh}_{service}-vn_{}.{action}"
    ...
```

This converter parses `traffic`, `mesh`, `service`, and `action` as dimensions from the `cluster.cds_egress_ecommerce-demo-mesh_gateway-vn_tcp_8080.update_success` metric. If a section has only a pair of brackets without a name, it does not capture a dimension.

When multiple converters are provided, a metric is converted by the first converter with a matching pattern to the metric name.

### Formatting metric name

You can customize a metric name by providing a format string within the converter configuration, as shown in the following example:

```
converters:
  - pattern: "cluster.cds_{traffic}_{mesh}_{service}-vn_{}.{action}"
    metricName: "{traffic}.{action}"
```

The metrics that match to the given pattern are reported to Infrastructure Monitoring as `{traffic}.{action}`.
For instance, metric `cluster.cds_egress_ecommerce-demo-mesh_gateway-vn_tcp_8080.update_success` is reported as `egress.update_success`.

`metricName` is required for a converter configuration. A converter is disabled if `metricName` is not provided.

## Troubleshooting

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```