(openstack)=

# OpenStack

<meta name="description" content="Documentation on the openstack monitor">


## Description

The {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>` provides this integration as the OpenStack monitor via the Smart Agent Receiver.

This monitor gathers metrics from OpenStack instances using the OpenStack Python plugin. This plugin is installed with the Smart Agent or the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector, so no additional installation is required to use this monitor.

This monitor covers the following OpenStack components:

* Nova (Compute)

* Cinder (Block Storage)

* Neutron (Network)


## Installation

This monitor is available in the SignalFx Smart Agent Receiver, which is part of the {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>`.

To install this integration:

1. Deploy the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector to your host or container platform.

2. Configure the monitor, as described in the next section.


## Configuration

The Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector allows embedding a Smart Agent monitor configuration in an associated Smart Agent Receiver instance.

**Note:** Providing an OpenStack monitor entry in your Smart Agent or Collector configuration is required for its use. Use the appropriate form for your agent type.

### Smart Agent

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
  - type: collectd/openstack
    ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#configure-the-smart-agent" target="_blank">Smart Agent example configuration</a> for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

To activate this monitor in the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
receivers:
  smartagent/openstack:
    type: collectd/openstack
    ...  # Additional config
```

To complete the monitor activation, you must also include the `smartagent/openstack` receiver item in a `metrics` pipeline. To do this, add the receiver item to the `service` > `pipelines` > `metrics` > `receivers` section of your configuration file.

See <a href="https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/examples" target="_blank">configuration examples</a> for specific use cases that show how the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector can integrate and complement existing environments.

The following is an example OpenStack Smart Agent monitor configuration:

```yaml
monitors:
- type: collectd/openstack
  authURL: "http://192.168.11.111/identity/v3"
  username: "<admin-username>"
  password: "<admin-password>"
```

The following is an example OpenStack Smart Agent monitor configuration using `skipVerify`:

```yaml
monitors:
- type: collectd/openstack
  authURL: "https://192.168.11.111/identity/v3"
  username: "<admin-username>"
  password: "<admin-password>"
  skipVerify: true
```

### Configuration settings

The following table shows the configuration options for the OpenStack monitor:

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `pythonBinary` | no | `string` | Path to a python binary that should be used to execute the Python code. If not set, a built-in runtime is used.  This option can include arguments to the binary as well. |
| `authURL` | **yes** | `string` | Keystone authentication URL/endpoint for the OpenStack cloud |
| `username` | **yes** | `string` | Username to authenticate with keystone identity |
| `password` | **yes** | `string` | Password to authenticate with keystone identity |
| `projectName` | no | `string` | Specify the name of Project to be monitored (**default**:"demo") |
| `projectDomainID` | no | `string` | The project domain (**default**:"default") |
| `regionName` | no | `string` | The region name for URL discovery. The region name defaults to the first region if multiple regions are available. |
| `userDomainID` | no | `string` | The user domain ID (**default**:"default") |
| `skipVerify` | no | `bool` | Skip SSL certificate validation (**default:** `false`) |


### Deployment host for the Smart Agent

Identify a host on which the Smart Agent will run. This integration collects data from OpenStack remotely via APIs, and so those API endpoints must be visible to the host on which the Smart Agent runs.

Do not install the Smart Agent directly on a compute instance because a compute instance/resource under one project cannot get stats about the resources under other projects. Also, a compute instance may go down due to lack of resources in the project.


## Metrics

The following metrics are available for this integration:

<div class="metrics-yaml" url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/signalfx/integrations/master/openstack/metrics.yaml"></div>

## Troubleshooting

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```
