(zookeeper)=

# Apache Zookeeper

<meta name="description" content="Documentation on the zookeeper monitor">


## Description

The {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>` provides this integration as the Apache Zookeeper monitor via the Smart Agent Receiver.

This monitor keeps track of an Apache Zookeeper instance using the [Zookeeper plugin](https://github.com/signalfx/collectd-zookeeper). This plugin is installed with the Smart Agent so no additional installation is required to use this monitor. Supports Zookeeper 3.4.0 or later.

## Installation

This monitor is available in the SignalFx Smart Agent Receiver, which is part of the {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>`.

To install this integration:

1. Deploy the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector to your host or container platform.

2. Configure the monitor, as described in the next section.


## Configuration

The Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector allows embedding a Smart Agent monitor configuration in an associated Smart Agent Receiver instance.

**Note:** Providing an Apache Zookeeper monitor entry in your Smart Agent or Collector configuration is required for its use. Use the appropriate form for your agent type.

### Smart Agent

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
  - type: collectd/zookeeper
    ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#configure-the-smart-agent" target="_blank">Smart Agent example configuration</a> for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

To activate this monitor in the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
receivers:
  smartagent/zookeeper:
    type: collectd/zookeeper
    ...  # Additional config
```

To complete the monitor activation, you must also include the `smartagent/zookeeper` receiver item in a `metrics` pipeline. To do this, add the receiver item to the `service` > `pipelines` > `metrics` > `receivers` section of your configuration file.

See <a href="https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/examples" target="_blank">configuration examples</a> for specific use cases that show how the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector can integrate and complement existing environments.

### Configuration settings

The following table shows the configuration options for the Apache Zookeeper monitor:

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `pythonBinary` | no | `string` | Path to a python binary that should be used to execute the Python code. If not set, a built-in runtime will be used. Can include arguments to the binary as well. |
| `host` | **yes** | `string` | Host or IP address of the Zookeeper node |
| `port` | **yes** | `integer` | Main port of the Zookeeper node |
| `name` | no | `string` | This will be the value of the `plugin_instance` dimension on emitted metrics, if provided. |


## Metrics

The following metrics are available for this integration:

<div class="metrics-yaml" url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/signalfx/integrations/master/zookeeper/metrics.yaml"></div>

## Troubleshooting

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```
