(nginx)=
# NGINX
<meta name="description" content="Documentation on the nginx monitor">

## Description

The Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector provides this integration as the NGINX monitor via the Smart Agent Receiver. This monitor keeps track of an NGINX instance.

Note that this monitor requires special configuration enabled in NGINX. See the **Configuration** section for details.

## Installation

This monitor is available in the SignalFx Smart Agent Receiver, which is part of the {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>`.

To install this integration:
1. Deploy the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector to your host or container platform.
2. Configure the monitor, as described in the next section.

## Configuration

The Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector allows embedding a Smart Agent monitor configuration in an associated Smart Agent Receiver instance.

**Note:** Providing an NGINX monitor entry in your Smart Agent or Collector configuration is required for its use. Use the appropriate form for your agent type.

### Smart Agent

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: collectd/nginx
   ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#configure-the-smart-agent" target="_blank">Smart Agent example configuration</a> for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

To activate this monitor in the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
receivers:
  smartagent/nginx:
    type: collectd/nginx
    ...  # Additional config
```

To complete the monitor activation, you must also include the `smartagent/nginx` receiver item in a `metrics` pipeline. To do this, add the receiver item to the `service` > `pipelines` > `metrics` > `receivers` section of your configuration file.

See <a href="https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/examples" target="_blank">configuration examples</a> for specific use cases that show how the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector can integrate and complement existing environments.

**Important:** You must configure NGINX to expose status information by editing the NGINX configuration. See
[ngx_http_stub_status_module](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_stub_status_module.html) for a guide to configuring the NGINX `ngx_http_stub_status_module` stats module.

### Configuration settings

The following table shows the configuration options for this monitor:

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `host` | **yes** | `string` |  |
| `port` | **yes** | `integer` |  |
| `name` | no | `string` |  |
| `url` | no | `string` | The full URL of the status endpoint; can be a template (**default:** `http://{{.Host}}:{{.Port}}/nginx_status`) |
| `username` | no | `string` |  |
| `password` | no | `string` |  |
| `timeout` | no | `integer` |  (**default:** `0`) |


## Metrics

The following metrics are available for this integration:

<div class="metrics-yaml" url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/signalfx/integrations/master/nginx/metrics.yaml"></div>

## Troubleshooting

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```
