(mysql)=
# MySQL
<meta name="description" content="Documentation on the MySQL monitor">

## Description

The Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector provides this integration as the MySQL monitor via the Smart Agent Receiver.

This monitor connects to a MySQL instance and reports on the values returned by a `SHOW STATUS` command, which include the following:

  - Number of commands processed
  - Table and row operations (handlers)
  - State of the query cache
  - Status of MySQL threads
  - Network traffic


## Installation

This monitor is available in the SignalFx Smart Agent Receiver, which is part of the {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>`.

To install this integration:
1. Deploy the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector to your host or container platform.
2. Configure the monitor, as described in the next section.


<!--- notes from source file: -->
### Creating a MySQL user for this monitor

To create a MySQL user for this monitor:

```
 CREATE USER '<username>'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY '<password>';
 -- Give appropriate permissions
 -- ("GRANT USAGE" is synonymous to "no privileges")
 GRANT USAGE ON *.* TO '<username>'@'localhost';
 -- Permissions for the stats options
 GRANT REPLICATION CLIENT ON *.* TO '<username>'@'localhost';
```

The new user will only have privileges to connect to the database. Additional privileges are not required.

### Note on localhost
On Unix, MySQL programs treat the host name `localhost` specially, in a way
that is likely different from what is expected compared to other
network-based programs. For connections to `localhost`, MySQL programs
attempt to connect to the local server by using a Unix socket file. To ensure
that the client makes a TCP/IP connection to the local server specify a host
name value of `127.0.0.1`, or the IP address or name of the local server.

### Databases
You have to specify each database you want to monitor individually under
the `databases` configuration option. If you have a common authentication to all
databases being monitored, you can specify that in the top-level
`username`/`password` options, otherwise they can be specified at the
database level.

### InnoDB metrics
If you want to enable InnoDB metrics (`innodbStats` to `true`), be sure that
you granted the `PROCESS` privilege to your user.

## Configuration

The Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector allows embedding a Smart Agent monitor configuration in an associated Smart Agent Receiver instance.

**Note:** Providing a MySQL monitor entry in your Smart Agent or Collector configuration is required for its use. Use the appropriate form for your agent type.

### Smart Agent

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: collectd/mysql
   ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#configure-the-smart-agent" target="_blank">Smart Agent example configuration</a> for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

To activate this monitor in the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
receivers:
  smartagent/mysql:
    type: collectd/mysql
    ...  # Additional config
```

To complete the monitor activation, you must also include the `smartagent/mysql` receiver item in a `metrics` pipeline. To do this, add the receiver item to the `service` > `pipelines` > `metrics` > `receivers` section of your configuration file.

See <a href="https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/examples" target="_blank">configuration examples</a> for specific use cases that show how the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector can integrate and complement existing environments.

The following is a sample YAML configuration that shows how to connect multiple MySQL databases:

```
monitors:
 - type: collectd/mysql
   host: 127.0.0.1
   port: 3306
   databases:
     - name: dbname
     - name: securedb
       username: admin
       password: s3cr3t
   username: dbuser
   password: passwd
```

The following is a sample YAML configuration that shows how to connect a single MySQL database:

```
monitors:
 - type: collectd/mysql
    host: 127.0.0.1
    port: 3306
    databases:
      - name:
    username: YOURUSERNAMEHERE
    password: YOURPASSWORDHERE
```

### Configuration settings

The following table shows the configuration options for the MySQL monitor:

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `host` | **yes** | `string` |  |
| `port` | **yes** | `integer` |  |
| `name` | no | `string` |  |
| `databases` | **yes** | `list of objects (see below)` | A list of databases along with optional authentication credentials. |
| `username` | no | `string` | These credentials serve as defaults for all databases if not overridden |
| `password` | no | `string` |  |
| `reportHost` | no | `bool` | A SignalFx extension to the plugin that allows us to disable the normal behavior of the MySQL plugin where the `host` dimension is set to the hostname of the MySQL database server.  When `false` (the recommended and default setting), the globally configured `hostname` configuration is used instead. (**default:** `false`) |
| `innodbStats` | no | `bool` |  (**default:** `false`) |


The **nested** `databases` configuration object has the following fields:

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `name` | **yes** | `string` |  |
| `username` | no | `string` |  |
| `password` | no | `string` |  |

<!--- skipped some content in source file under "Built in content" -->

## Metrics

The following metrics are available for this integration:

<div class="metrics-yaml" url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/signalfx/integrations/master/mysql/metrics.yaml"></div>

## Troubleshooting

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```
