(collectd-systemd)=

# systemd

<meta name="description" content="Documentation on the collectd/systemd monitor">

## Description

The {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>` provides this integration as the `collectd/systemd` monitor via the Smart Agent Receiver. This monitor collects metrics about the state of configured systemd services using the `collectd/systemd` plugin. A service is in the state that a metric represents if the metric value is 1 and not in that state if the metric value is 0. The name of the service that the metric is reporting about is assigned to dimension `systemd_service`.

The `collectd-systemd` plugin reads the status of systemd services from host location `/var/run/dbus/system_bus_socket`. This means that the host location must be mounted to the container in which the Smart Agent is running. The agent container must also run in privilege mode. The following example shows an excerpt of the `docker run` command:

```yaml
docker run ...\
  --privileged \
  -v /var/run/dbus/system_bus_socket:/var/run/dbus/system_bus_socket:ro \
...
```

##  Installation

This monitor is available in the SignalFx Smart Agent Receiver, which is part of the {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>`.

To install this integration:

1. Deploy the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector to your host or container platform.

2. Configure the monitor, as described in the next section.

## Configuration

This Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector allows embedding a Smart Agent monitor configuration in an associated Smart Agent Receiver instance.

**Note:** Providing a systemd monitor entry in your Smart Agent or Collector configuration is required for its use. Use the appropriate form for your agent type.

### Smart Agent
To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:

```yaml
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: collectd/systemd
   ...  # Additional config
```

The following is an excerpt of a YAML configuration for monitoring the state of `docker` and `ubuntu-fan` services:

```yaml
monitors:
- type: collectd/systemd
  intervalSeconds: 10
  services:
    - docker
    - ubuntu-fan
```

`gauge.substate.running`, which indicates whether a service is running or not, is the only metric reported by default. The other metrics must be configured explicitly using the `sendActiveState`, `sendSubState`, and `sendLoadState` configuration flags, as shown in the following example. The metrics are grouped into `ActiveState`, `SubState`, and `LoadState` groups.

```yaml
monitors:
- type: collectd/systemd
  intervalSeconds: 10
  services:
    - docker
    - ubuntu-fan
  sendActiveState: true
```

See <a href="https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#configure-the-smart-agent" target="_blank">Smart Agent example configuration</a> for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

To activate this monitor in the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector, add the following to your agent configuration:

```yaml
receivers:
  smartagent/systemd:
    type: collectd/systemd
    ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/examples" target="_blank">configuration examples</a> for specific use cases that show how the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector can integrate and complement existing environments.

### Configuration settings

The following table shows the configuration options for this monitor:

| Option| Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `services` | **yes** | `list of strings` | systemd services to report on |
| `sendActiveState` | no | `bool` | Flag for sending metrics about the state of systemd services (**default:** `false`) |
| `sendSubState` | no | `bool` | Flag for sending more detailed metrics about the state of systemd services (**default:** `false`) |
| `sendLoadState` | no | `bool` | Flag for sending metrics about the load state of systemd services (**default:** `false`) |

## Metrics
The following metrics are available for this integration:

<div class="metrics-yaml" url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/main/pkg/monitors/collectd/systemd/metadata.yaml"></div>

## Troubleshooting

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```
