
(appmesh)=

# AWS AppMesh Envoy Proxy
<meta name="description" content="Documentation on the appmesh receiver">

## Description

This monitor starts a StatsD monitor to listen to StatsD metrics emitted
by AWS AppMesh Envoy Proxy.

The {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>` provides this integration as the `appmesh` monitor via the Smart Agent receiver.

To report AppMesh Envoy metrics, enable Envoy StatsD sink on AppMesh
and deploy the agent as a sidecar in the services that need to be monitored.

The following example shows an Envoy StatsD configuration:

```yaml
stats_sinks:
 -
  name: "envoy.statsd"
  config:
   address:
    socket_address:
     address: "127.0.0.1"
     port_value: 8125
     protocol: "UDP"
   prefix: statsd.appmesh
```
Since the prefix in metric names needs to be removed before metric name conversion, populate the `prefix` field
with the value of the `metricPrefix` configuration for the monitor to remove this specified prefix. If not specified,
the `prefix` field defautls to `envoy`.

To learn more, see the [Envoy API reference](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v2/config/metrics/v2/stats.proto#envoy-api-msg-config-metrics-v2-statsdsink).


## Installation

This monitor is available in the SignalFx Smart Agent Receiver, which is part of the {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>`.

To install this integration:

1. Deploy the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector to your host or container platform.
2. Configure the monitor, as described in the next section.


## Configuration

The Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector allows embedding a Smart Agent monitor configuration in an associated Smart Agent Receiver instance.

**Note:** Providing an AppMesh Envoy monitor entry in your Smart Agent or Collector configuration is required for its use. Use the appropriate form for your agent type.

### Smart Agent

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:  

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: appmesh
   ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#configure-the-smart-agent" target="_blank">Smart Agent example configuration</a> for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

To activate this monitor in the OpenTelemetry Collector, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
receivers:
	smartagent/appmesh:
		type: appmesh
		... # Additional config
```

To complete the monitor activation, you must also include the `smartagent/appmesh` receiver item in a `metrics` pipeline. To do this, add the receiver item to the `service` > `pipelines` > `metrics` > `receivers` section of your configuration file.

See <a href="https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/examples" target="_blank">configuration examples</a> for specific use cases that show how the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector can integrate and complement existing environments.

### Configuration settings

The following table shows the configuration options for this monitor:

| Option| Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `listenAddress` | no | `string` | The host/address on which to bind the UDP listener that accepts statsd datagrams (**default:** `localhost`) |
| `listenPort` | no | `integer` | The port on which to listen for statsd messages (**default:** `8125`) |
| `metricPrefix` | no | `string` | A prefix in metric names that needs to be removed before metric name conversion |

## Example configurations

The following is a sample Smart Agent configuration:

```yaml
monitors:
 - type: appmesh
   listenAddress: 0.0.0.0
   listenPort: 8125
   metricPrefix: statsd.appmesh
```

## Metrics

The following metrics are available for this integration:

<div class="metrics-yaml" url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/main/pkg/monitors/appmesh/metadata.yaml"></div>

## Troubleshooting

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```
