(host-metadata)=

# Host metadata properties

<meta name="description" content="Documentation on the host-metadata monitor">

## Description

The {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>` provides this integration as the `host-metadata` monitor  via the Smart Agent Receiver.

The `host-metadata` monitor collects metadata properties about a host. This monitor is required for some views in Splunk Observability Cloud to operate. This monitor accepts endpoints. This monitor does not allow multiple instances.

In containerized environments host `/etc` and `/proc` may not be located
directly under the root path.  You can specify the path to `proc` and `etc` using the top level agent configurations `procPath` and `etcPath`, as shown in the following example:

```yaml
procPath: /proc
etcPath: /etc
monitors:
  - type: host-metadata
```

Metadata updates occur on a sparse interval of approximately
1m, 1m, 1h, and 1d, and continue repeating once per day.
Setting the `Interval` configuration for this monitor does not affect the
sparse interval on which metadata is collected.

## Installation

This monitor is provided by the Smart Agent and is available by using the SignalFx Smart Agent Receiver in the {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>`.

To install this integration:

1. Deploy the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector to your host or container platform.
2. Configure the monitor, as described in the next section.

## Configuration

The Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector allows embedding a Smart Agent monitor configuration in an associated Smart Agent Receiver instance.

**Note:** Providing a `host-metadata` monitor entry in your Smart Agent or Collector configuration is required for its use. Use the appropriate form for your agent type.

### Smart Agent

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:  

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: host-metadata
   ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#configure-the-smart-agent" target="_blank">Smart Agent example configuration</a> for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

To activate this monitor in the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
receivers:
  smartagent/host-metadata:
    type: host-metadata
    ... # Additional config
```

To complete the monitor activation, you must also include the `smartagent/host-metadata` receiver item in a `metrics` pipeline. To do this, add the receiver item to the `service` > `pipelines` > `metrics` > `receivers` section of your configuration file.

See <a href="https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/examples" target="_blank">configuration examples</a> for specific use cases that show how the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector can integrate and complement existing environments.

## Metrics

The following metrics are available for this integration:

<div class="metrics-yaml" url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/main/pkg/monitors/metadata/hostmetadata/metadata.yaml"></div>

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` configuration option. Metrics that are derived from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above list of metrics do not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted, you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.

## Troubleshooting

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```